feat: MCP post, Using MCPs to Run Terraform (#54)
masterpointio/masterpoint.io: content/blog/using-mcps-to-run-terraform.md

---
visible: false
draft: false
title: "Using MCPs to Run Terraform"
author: Weston Platter
date: 2025-04-16
slug: using-mcps-to-run-terraform
description: "We jump into a hands-on exploration of Model Context Protocols (MCPs), sharing our experiment using tfmcp to run terraform init, plan, apply. We share our take on where agents add value and highlight security considerations when adding MCPs to your workflow."
image: /img/updates/using-mcps-to-run-terraform/header5.png
callout: <p>👋 <b>If you're ready to take your infrastructure to the next level, we're here to help. We love to work together with engineering teams to help them build well-documented, scalable, automated IaC that make their jobs easier. <a href='/contact'>Get in touch!</a>
---

## Table of Contents
- [Quick Note](#quick-note)
- [Introduction](#introduction)
- [Demo / Walk Through](#demo--walk-through)
  - [MCP configuration](#mcp-configuration)
  - [Terraform code for us to run](#terraform-code-for-us-to-run)
  - [Debugging terraform apply](#debugging-terraform-apply)
- [Takeways](#takeways)

> 

Author: fixed.

<br>

## Quick Note
We’re diverging from the typical Masterpoint beat and looking at an emerging trend MCPs in agentic workflows and how it relates to Infrastructure as Code (IaC). Our goal is to share what we’re learning and experimenting with in the AI realm.

We’re specifically interested in:
- roles and responsibilities that AI agents might take on  
- security boundaries required to keep client infra safe  
- ways new tech can simplify how clients manage IaC

<br>

# Introduction
You might have heard about Anthropic’s [Model Context Protocol](https://modelcontextprotocol.io/introduction) (MCP) and their implementation as MCP clients or servers (MCPs) — they’ve been gaining attention in the agentic workflow space. At a high level, MPC clients/servers act as universal connectors between your AI tool of choice (like Cursor or Claude Desktop) and the tools, APIs, and data sources you want the agent to work with.

> 

Author: fixed

provider "postgresql" {  
 host             = "localhost"
 port             = 5432  
 database         = "postgres"  
 username         = "admin_user"  
 password         = ""  
 sslmode          = "disable"  
 connect_timeout  = 15  
}

# create a role for the app  
resource "postgresql_role" "app_role" {  
 name     = "app_role"
 login    = true  
 password = "mypass" # intentionally insecure password for demo
}

# create a database for the app
resource "postgresql_database" "app_db" {  
  name                   = "app_db"  
  owner                  = postgresql_role.app_role.name  
  template               = "template0"  
  lc_collate             = "C"  
  connection_limit       = -1  
  allow_connections      = true  
  alter_object_ownership = true  
}

# create a schema for the app  
resource "postgresql_schema" "app_schema" {  
  name     = "app_schema"  
  owner    = postgresql_role.app_role.name  
  database = postgresql_database.app_db.name  
}
```

<br>

### Debugging terraform apply
At this point, I was ready for the agent to run terraform plan and apply my changes. And here is where the rubber meets the road in using MCPs 🙂. Here’s what I ran into:

> **The first issue** was a permissions error — `admin_user` couldn’t create Postgres roles. This issue was totally my fault — I hadn’t granted it any meaningful privileges. I had the MCP repeatedly run `terraform apply`, but either the MCP didn't log/surface the error or Cursor’s Agent Mode wasn't able to interepret the cause of the error.

Author: fixed

---
visible: false
draft: false

> title: "Using MCPs to Run Terraform"

Author: fixed

- ([substack article](https://addyo.substack.com/p/mcp-what-it-is-and-why-it-matters)) What is MCP and Why it Matters

<br>
<br>

## Demo / Walk Through

To explore how and where agents with MCPs can take on more responsibilities within the Infrastructure as Code realm, I ran a small experiment using a Terraform MCP client — [tfmcp](https://github.com/nwiizo/tfmcp) — to run commands like `init`, `plan`, and `apply` on my local computer.

My example infrastructure use-case for this experiment was to  create a Postgres database, a schema, and give an app user scoped read/write access — just enough to get a feel for using an MCP client in practice.

### MCP configuration
To get started, I needed to configure a few things:

1. **Install tfmcp.** I followed the install instructions in the [tfmcp's README](https://github.com/nwiizo/tfmcp/tree/b0fcc5c32f4bf0a71f373dd18891ce9faf36f09b?tab=readme-ov-file#installation).

2. **Set up tfmcp in Cursor.** I followed [Cursor’s instructions](https://docs.cursor.com/context/model-context-protocol\#configuring-mcp-servers]) and plugged in the relevant tfmcp settings (see example `mcp.json`).

> 

Author: fixed.

<!-- - **Revising Figma designs.** Imagine directing an AI to update existing designs in your company’s Figma account. (credit goes to Andy Osmami’s [substack post on MCPs](https://addyo.substack.com/i/159868119/ai-figma-programmatic-ui-design) for this example).  "AI, can you grab the color palette from the Login screen design?" The AI, via MCP, fetches the design document from Figma and returns the color styles. Or say "Increase the padding of the signup button and export it as an image" – the AI can command Figma to adjust that element and retrieve an updated asset, then perhaps use it in code. -->

- **Revising Figma designs.** Imagine directing an AI to update existing designs in your company’s Figma account (credit to Andy Osmami’s [Substack post on MCPs](https://addyo.substack.com/i/159868119/ai-figma-programmatic-ui-design) for this example). For instance:

  > "AI, can you grab the color palette from the Login screen design?"

>   The AI—via MCP—fetches the Figma file and returns the color styles. Or:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  The AI — via MCP — fetches the Figma file and returns the color styles. Or:
```

 login    = true  
 password = "mypass" # intentionally insecure password for demo
}

# create a database for the app
resource "postgresql_database" "app_db" {  
  name                   = "app_db"  
  owner                  = postgresql_role.app_role.name  
  template               = "template0"  
  lc_collate             = "C"  
  connection_limit       = -1  
  allow_connections      = true  
  alter_object_ownership = true  
}

# create a schema for the app  
resource "postgresql_schema" "app_schema" {  
  name     = "app_schema"  
  owner    = postgresql_role.app_role.name  
  database = postgresql_database.app_db.name  
}
```

<br>

### Debugging terraform apply
At this point, I was ready for the agent to run terraform plan and apply my changes. And here is where the rubber meets the road in using MCPs 🙂. Here’s what I ran into:

**The first issue** was a permissions error — `admin_user` couldn’t create Postgres roles. This issue was totally my fault — I hadn’t granted it any meaningful privileges. I had the MCP repeatedly run `terraform apply`, but either the MCP didn't log/surface the error or Cursor’s Agent Mode wasn't able to interpret the cause of the error.

> ![First issue - MCP able to run terraform apply](/img/updates/using-mcps-to-run-terraform/debug1.png)

Reviewer 2: @westonplatter this image is good, but it's hard to read even on a large screen and we sadly don't have a lightbox that'll show it in better resolution when you click on it. Can you please break this up into two screenshots so we have both bit bigger? They can be one on top of the other -- I just want to make sure people can read them.

Eventually, I switched to running `terraform apply` directly in the terminal and got a helpful error: `admin_user` lacked the required privileges. I jumped into Postgres on the command line via `psql` and granted it `CREATEROLE` and `CREATEDB`.

**The second issue** was with the provider config — even after fixing the role permissions, `terraform apply` kept failing when run via the MCP (see screenshots). Again, the specific terraform error wasn’t surfaced.
![MCP doesn't show the acutual error](/img/updates/using-mcps-to-run-terraform/debug2.png)

> After retrying a couple times, the Cursor Agent Mode suggested I run terraform apply via it’s [the Run capability](https://docs.cursor.com/chat/tools#run), which I did. Cursor was actually decent at running the cli command and it parsing the output. Once it got acess to the error message, Cursor Agent mode suggested a working config update (specifically, setting `superuser = false`). At that point, I continued using Cursor Run to terraform apply the changes. Afterwards, I was able to jump back and us tfmcp to turn terraform operations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After retrying a couple times, the Cursor Agent Mode suggested I run `terraform apply` via its [the Run capability](https://docs.cursor.com/chat/tools#run), which I did. Cursor was actually decent at running the CLI command and it parsing the output. Once it got access to the error message, Cursor Agent mode suggested a working config update (specifically, setting `superuser = false`). At that point, I continued using Cursor Run to terraform apply the changes. Afterwards, I was able to jump back and us tfmcp to turn terraform operations.
```

> 

Author: Fixed locally
